_pages/about.md, before:

---
permalink: /
title: "Hila Gonen"
excerpt: "About"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

I am an Assistant Professot of [Computer Science](https://www.cs.ubc.ca/) at the [University of Biritish Columbia](https://www.ubc.ca/). 

My research interests lie in the intersection of Natural Language Processing, Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence. In my research I work towards two main goals: (1) developing algorithms and methods for understanding and controlling the model's behavior; (2) making cutting-edge language technology available and fair across languages and different socio-demographic groups. I am interested in making models more reliable, consistent and safe, and I also focus on multilingual NLP. 

Before joining UBC, I was a postdoctoral researcher at the [Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering at the University of Washington](https://www.cs.washington.edu/), at Meta AI and at Amazon. Prior to that I did my Ph.D in Computer Science at the [NLP lab at Bar Ilan University](https://biu-nlp.github.io/). I obtained my Ms.C. in Coputer Science from the [Hebrew University](https://www.cs.huji.ac.il/).

**Note for prospective students**: I will be recruiting graduate students this coming cycle for the fall of 2026. The deadline is December 15 2025, and you should apply [directly to the department](https://www.cs.ubc.ca/students/grad/prospective). Please do not email me directly. If you are interested in working with me, simply mention my name in your application.


Recent Updates
------

August 2025 - Joined UBC and an Assistant Professor.

August 2025 - Our papers have been accepted at [EMNLP (Omniguard)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2505.23856) and [Findings of EMNLP (Dementia Through Different Eyes)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2505.13418).

Decemner 2024 - Participated as a panelist in [The Future of NLP workshop at UBC](https://nlp.cs.ubc.ca/future-of-nlp-workshop) 

December 2024 - I have accepted an offer from CS UBC and will be joining as an Assitant Professor starting August 2025.

November 2024 - Keynote at [The 4th Multilingual Representation Learning workshop, EMNLP](https://sigtyp.github.io/ws2024-mrl.html)

October 2024 - Moderating a panel about Safety in AI at [The Paul G. Allen School's 2024 Annual Research Showcase and Open House event](https://www.cs.washington.edu/industrial_affiliates/meetings/2024/talks)

August 2024 - Our new paper [Does Liking Yellow Imply Driving a School Bus? Semantic Leakage in Language Models](https://www.arxiv.org/pdf/2408.06518) is now available on arXiv

October 2023 - Our paper [Demystifying Prompts in Language Models via Perplexity Estimation](https://aclanthology.org/2023.findings-emnlp.679/) is accepted at Findings of EMNLP (with [a few more papers](https://twitter.com/hila_gonen/status/1731935919811510519) as well)

August 2023 - Women's Postdoctoral Career Development Award in Science (Weitzmann Institute of Science)

January 2023 - Best Doctoral Dissertation Award Runner Up, Israeli Association for Artificial Intelligence (IAAI)

October 2022 - Excited to receive the [EECS Rising Stars](https://risingstars.utexas.edu/) award, attended the workshop at UT Austin

May 2022 - We are honored to get the *Best Paper* award at the RepL4NLP workshop for our paper ["Analyzing Gender Representation in Multilingual Models"](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2204.09168.pdf)

Commit message:

Revise research interests and goals in about.md
Updated research interests and added focus areas in NLP.

_pages/about.md, after:

---
permalink: /
title: "Hila Gonen"
excerpt: "About"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

I am an Assistant Professot of [Computer Science](https://www.cs.ubc.ca/) at the [University of Biritish Columbia](https://www.ubc.ca/). 

My research interests lie in the intersection of Natural Language Processing, Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence. My long-term vision is transforming LLMs into responsible, reliable and trustworthy systems, available and fair across languages and different socio-demographic groups. In my research I focus on three main threads: (1) Control and interpretation of models: understanding model behavior and controlling model generation; (2) Reliability, safety and fairness: making models more consistent and safe, and mitigating biases and risks; (3) Multilinguality: creating NLP tools that equitably serve speakers of as many languages as possible, as well as understanding the emergent property of cross-linguality in models. Additionally, I've recently developed interest in employing NLP tools and methodologies in the health domain. 

Before joining UBC, I was a postdoctoral researcher at the [Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering at the University of Washington](https://www.cs.washington.edu/), at Meta AI and at Amazon. Prior to that I did my Ph.D in Computer Science at the [NLP lab at Bar Ilan University](https://biu-nlp.github.io/). I obtained my Ms.C. in Coputer Science from the [Hebrew University](https://www.cs.huji.ac.il/).

**Note for prospective students**: I will be recruiting graduate students this coming cycle for the fall of 2026. The deadline is December 15 2025, and you should apply [directly to the department](https://www.cs.ubc.ca/students/grad/prospective). Please do not email me directly. If you are interested in working with me, simply mention my name in your application.


Recent Updates
------

August 2025 - Joined UBC and an Assistant Professor.

August 2025 - Our papers have been accepted at [EMNLP (Omniguard)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2505.23856) and [Findings of EMNLP (Dementia Through Different Eyes)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2505.13418).

Decemner 2024 - Participated as a panelist in [The Future of NLP workshop at UBC](https://nlp.cs.ubc.ca/future-of-nlp-workshop) 

December 2024 - I have accepted an offer from CS UBC and will be joining as an Assitant Professor starting August 2025.

November 2024 - Keynote at [The 4th Multilingual Representation Learning workshop, EMNLP](https://sigtyp.github.io/ws2024-mrl.html)

October 2024 - Moderating a panel about Safety in AI at [The Paul G. Allen School's 2024 Annual Research Showcase and Open House event](https://www.cs.washington.edu/industrial_affiliates/meetings/2024/talks)

August 2024 - Our new paper [Does Liking Yellow Imply Driving a School Bus? Semantic Leakage in Language Models](https://www.arxiv.org/pdf/2408.06518) is now available on arXiv

October 2023 - Our paper [Demystifying Prompts in Language Models via Perplexity Estimation](https://aclanthology.org/2023.findings-emnlp.679/) is accepted at Findings of EMNLP (with [a few more papers](https://twitter.com/hila_gonen/status/1731935919811510519) as well)

August 2023 - Women's Postdoctoral Career Development Award in Science (Weitzmann Institute of Science)

January 2023 - Best Doctoral Dissertation Award Runner Up, Israeli Association for Artificial Intelligence (IAAI)

October 2022 - Excited to receive the [EECS Rising Stars](https://risingstars.utexas.edu/) award, attended the workshop at UT Austin

May 2022 - We are honored to get the *Best Paper* award at the RepL4NLP workshop for our paper ["Analyzing Gender Representation in Multilingual Models"](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2204.09168.pdf)
